Vim, Emacs, Micro
https://github.com/hamk-linux-21x6/marikatamminen_assignments
Marika Tamminen

1. learning curve (how easy to learn)
Micro was the easiest to learn, then Emacs which took a bit more practice to use and then Vim which was the hardest to learn

2. user interface (how easy to do tasks you need)
I think after putting some time into learning to use the editors, all of them were easy enough to get the tasks done that needed to be done. It was just a bit more time consuming with some of them.

3. features
I liked that Micro's features were the same for save a file, copy and paste as were used to with windows. Vim had some cool features and I especially liked the efficient way of deleting rows in a file. My favorite feature on Emacs was how easy splitting the screen and changing buffers was. On Micro and Emacs I liked that the mode is already on type mode and you don't have to switch modes to type.

4. speed
Micro had nothing to compare with Emacs and Vim. It was deffinately the slowest to use. Emacs at first was the fastest to use but after practicing a bit more Vim I started to be faster on it's shorcut commands and features. So I would say Vim is the fastest editor to type in when you master it.

5. problems / issues with the editor
With Emacs there was a lot of error codes at the beginning that needed to be worked out. Also everytime I would open a new Emacs file it would split the window and give an error code at the bottom. With Micro I had a lot of issues with closing it because at fist the ctrl-q didn't work. One annoying thing about Vim was that it made a lot of warning sounds as I was using it. I think it wouldn't do that though if you pushed the right buttons all the time.

6. describe ideal use case for the particular editor
Micro is perfect for a beginner. Very easy to learn and not a lot of difficult features. Ideal use is that you don't write that often and just want something easy and fast to learn. Vim is perfect for fast typing and for a pro typer. Ideal use is that you write many hours a day and need a lot of shortcuts. Emacs is good for beginners because it's easy to learn but it also has some complex features so that a pro can benefit from it also. Ideal usage is basically for anything.

My personal winner was Vim. I plan to use Emacs for quick editing and Vim for longer periods of time.
